Update and refactor CoC policy and processes (#1135)
openjs-foundation/cross-project-council: conduct/COC_TEAM_CHARTER.md

This document defines how the OpenJS Foundation implements its code of conduct.

If you want to report an incident, go to [code-of-conduct.openjsf.org][CoC].

***

# Code of Conduct Team Charter

The Cross Project Council (CPC) delegates enforcement of the [Code of Conduct][CoC] to the Code of Conduct Team (CoC Team) through this Code of Conduct Team Charter. This charter defines the composition and roles of the CoC Team, along with CoC team responsibilities and operations.

## Responsibilities

The CoC Team's responsibilities are to:

- Handle code of conduct [incident reports][incident report].
- Handle code of conduct [escalation requests][escalation].
- Handle code of conduct [appeals][appeal].

> - Keep the CPC up to date of cases requiring the CPC's attention.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Keep the CPC up to date on cases requiring the CPC's attention.
```

- Provide regular transparency reports to the CPC.
- Uphold this charter, the [code of conduct][CoC], and the [code of conduct policy][CoC Policy].

## CoC Team Structure

The CoC Team is composed of five (5) [primary members][#primary-members] and a variable number of [alternate community members][#alternate-community-members].

### Primary members

Primary members are CoC Team members responsible for [handling cases][#handling-cases].

The five primary members are:

* The OpenJS Foundation Executive Director
* The OpenJS Foundation Communications Manager
* Three (3) community members

The name and email address of the primary members are documented in the [code of conduct][primary members].

### Alternate community members

Alternate community members are CoC Team Members that are available as backup when there aren't enough primary community members available to [handle a case][#handling-cases].

### Member selection

> The Cross Project Council (CPC) will hold an annual selection process in order to select primary and alternate community members.

Reviewer 2: presumably we'll hold this process (for the first time) ASAP once this PR lands?

The CPC is responsible to ensure that the CoC Team is as representative and diverse as possible. To do so, the CPC commits to reach out proactively to individuals from underrepresented groups.

Candidates can self-nominate to be selected as an alternate community member, a primary member, or both.

Candidates must meet the [eligibility requirements](#eligibility).

### Eligibility

Primary and alternate community members of the CoC Team must: 

* Commit to uphold the Foundation's [Code of Conduct][CoC]
* Commit to uphold the Foundation's [Code of Conduct Policy][CoC Policy]
* Commit to uphold this charter
* Be willing to treat every accused individuals in the same way regardless of the impact of their contributions to open source

> No two primary members can work for the same employer.

Reviewer 3: If this is the case, how can the current/initial CoC team include both the OpenJSF Executive Director and the OpenJSF Communications Manager?

### Term

Members of the CoC Team serve a one year term. There are no limits on the number of terms a CoC Team member may serve.

## Handling cases

Each appeal, escalation request, and incident report must be handled by a minimum of three (3) and a maximum of five (5) members.

At least two (2) of the members involved in handling a case must be community members and at least one (1) must be an OpenJS Foundation staff member.

> If not enough primary community members are available to meet those requirements, primary members should involve one or more alternate community members. Similarily, if no OpenJSF staff primary member is available, another OpenJSF staff representative, choosen by the staff, should be involved instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If not enough primary community members are available to meet those requirements, primary members should involve one or more alternate community members. Similarly, if no OpenJSF staff primary member is available, another OpenJSF staff representative, chosen by the staff, should be involved instead.
```

This document defines how the OpenJS Foundation implements its code of conduct.

If you want to report an incident, go to [code-of-conduct.openjsf.org][CoC].

***

# Code of Conduct Team Charter

The Cross Project Council (CPC) delegates enforcement of the [Code of Conduct][CoC] to the Code of Conduct Team (CoC Team) through this Code of Conduct Team Charter. This charter defines the composition and roles of the CoC Team, along with CoC team responsibilities and operations.

## Responsibilities

> [TODO: add links]

Author: Thanks! There's a few left I still need to get to.

The CoC Team's responsibilities are to:

- Handle code of conduct [incident reports][incident report].
- Handle code of conduct [escalation requests][escalation].
- Handle code of conduct [appeals][appeal].
- Keep the CPC up to date of cases requiring the CPC's attention.
- Provide regular transparency reports to the CPC.

> - Define, document, and maintain all processes necessary to its operations, notably the [CoC Process for Incident Management](COC_PROCESS_FOR_INCIDENT_MANAGEMENT.md).

Reviewer 4: IMO self-definition is not the correct choice here, and I'm concerned that it's on the table. Any form of moderation team _should_ be people enabled to act on well-documented and well-defined processes and rules. To remove the potential for bias, **they should _not_ be charged with writing those rules themselves.**

In our case, writing these rules, documenting these rules, and maintaining the processes around those rules should be the charge of the CPC, not the CoC Team.

Author: That's the role of policy. The standard practice of good governance is to separate policy from process and offer a system to appeal the process if there's ground to believe it isn't correctly implementing policy. Moving process implementation to the CPC is the equivalent of asking legislators to author technical standards or shifting security right instead of left.

Reviewer 4: Commented again on this here https://github.com/openjs-foundation/cross-project-council/pull/1135#pullrequestreview-1839768804 but I strongly and fundamentally disagree with this. I understand the concept you're operating off of but fundamentally I disagree with it and think that for community safety issues, it's an approach that opens up the opportunity for issues from both ends - it creates potential for abuse, and it creates the opportunity for decisions to be questioned.

Reviewer 5: Repeating this comment here on suggestion from @tobie -

From the content proposed in this branch, there is still some work to do on [this particular file](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/cross-project-council/blob/coc/conduct/COC_TEAM_CHARTER.md) but the groundwork is there for eligibility. For this item, I think we could come to closure more efficiently by landing this PR and opening a specific issue (and tracking it on the CPC calls).

It does appear that the CoC Team composition and operations is a specific area that requires additional work. I propose we open this as a separate and specific issue so as not to block the entire CoC policy. That issue can be highlighted on our regular CPC calls-

Author: This was fixed. It is now the CPC which is in charge of this. Tracked in #1256.

- Work with OpenJS Foundation staff to develop infrastructure and processes necessary to comply to the requirements of the [code of conduct policy][CoC Policy], notably when it comes to record keeping, confidentiality, and transparency.
- Uphold this charter, the [code of conduct][CoC], and the [code of conduct policy][CoC Policy].

## CoC Team Structure

The CoC Team is composed of five (5) primary members and a variable number of alternate community members.

> ### Primary members

Reviewer 4: Alternate membership is never defined. Based on how this team charter is written, this needs to be well-defined. I am blocking on this.

Author: Both primary and alternate members are defined in the charter, in terms of their roles. Could you clarify how else you'd want them defined?

Reviewer 4: Please link where both primary and alternate members are defined? This file is called "COC_TEAM_CHARTER.md", so I assume it's the charter you're talking about. Searching throughout the full PR contents, I'm not able to find definitions - I'm bad at Control + F sometimes, though!

The section I left this comment on is titled "Primary members" but there is no "Alternate members" section - looking for the definition of "Alternate member" I realized that Primary members actually _also_ aren't defined here, which it probably should be.

Author: Fixed.

Author: @bnb can you please check this fix and resolve this conversation if you're happy with the fix?

The five primary members are:

* The OpenJS Foundation Executive Director
* The OpenJS Foundation Communications Manager
* Three (3) community members

The name and email address of the primary members are documented in the [code of conduct][primary members].

### Member selection

> The CPC will hold an annual selection process in order to select primary and alternate community members.

Reviewer 2: when will this process be held?

Author: As soon as we ship this!

[TODO:
- candidates can self-nominate
- candidates can self-nominate for alternate or primary role
- candidate must meet eligibility requirements
- CPC must work towards creating a CoC Team that is diverse
- CPC member can block a candidate if they can motivate the reason why
]

### Eligibility

Primary and alternate members of the CoC Team must: 

* Commit to uphold the Foundation's [Code of Conduct][CoC]
* Commit to uphold the Foundation's [Code of Conduct Policy][CoC Policy]
* Commit to uphold this charter

> * Be willing to treat every accused individuals in the same way regardless of the impact of their contributions to open source

Reviewer 4: I don't know if this is worth including, as it seems more ideological rather than substantial. It's the only section of this document that is written that way.

For clarity, what I'd consider substantial in this section are things like "cannot exceed 20% representation from the same employer".

Author: Following our conversation on Friday Jan 26, we agreed to keep the criteria mentioned above. I've also included an additional provision to limit the number of primary members with the same employer in https://github.com/openjs-foundation/cross-project-council/pull/1135/commits/7f817b4aa479dfaa00bdf2b9e42e5fc1e944c53a.

@bnb please add any other criteria you had in mind and resolve the conversation when you're good.

### Term

Members of the CoC Team serve a one year term. There are no limits on the number of terms a CoC Team member may serve.

### Chair

The primary members will select a chair from one of the three primary community members. When the chair isn't involved in a case, the members handling the case must chose a chair among themselves.

> The chair is responsible for handling the case according to documented processes, and making sure that the CoC Team upholds this charter, the [code of conduct][CoC] and the [code of conduct policy][CoC Policy].

Reviewer 4: I don't think this is necessary and simply adds more process.

Author: What does? Having a chair?

Author: Removed CoC Chair in https://github.com/openjs-foundation/cross-project-council/pull/1135/commits/9e71b96d7375ff8813624946d7cbe1b6c7d7a2e9.
